---
layout: post
title: Reading
tags: [blog]
published: true
---

TODO: proofread

It's sad for me to admit, but I haven't read a book for pleasure in years. The only books I've touched since coming to college are textbooks and other non-fiction (ethnographies and coding guides) for class. I'm looking to change that by reading *Outliers* by Malcolm Gladwell during the coming week of Rice's spring break.

I used to love reading. In middle and high school, I would read at every opportunity I got, attempting to finish in-class assignments as quickly as possible so that I could whip out my book and get a few pages of reading in.

I read a huge number of books in high school. I probably read a fiction work or two a month. Now I haven't managed to read a book in years. The last book I finished to completion was Orwell's *1984*, a book I read the summer before heading off to my first year at Rice.

So what changed since then? I think its the immediacy and speed at which I can browse the internet.

My high school didn't allow computers or phones in-class very often. Some of the teachers didn't care, but most did. Because of this, reading was my past-time of choice while in-between classes and assignments.

At home, my family shared one central desktop, a wired internet connection, and a laptop. This meant that browsing the internet required being out in the living room on a shared computer that everyone else inevitably wanted to use.

Now I live on my own in an off-campus apartment. I have "unlimited" access to our own wireless gateway to the internet from the comfort of my own room. When it comes time to choose what I want to do, I can either have the immediate gratification of the internet, or the long-term gratification of the book. It's hard not to choose the former.

Because of this, my reading habit tapered off when I went to college. Since the first year of my time at Rice, I have attempted to read several books, but have yet to finish one to completion. All have been abandoned within the first one-hundred pages.

I'd like to change this. I'd like to make reading fun for me again. I've attempted before to change my mentality about the internet. Sites like reddit and hacker news are great for what they do, but their ever-changing content is what keeps pulling me in. I browse these sites just to see what has changed. And this constant barrage of short little snippets of information has weakened my ability to handle anything longer than an article.

Certainly, I can't blame these sites. And it's not the internet's fault either. The responsibility to keep from getting sucked into these sites lies only with me.

So I'm going to attempt to build back my ability to tackle longer forms of media. I'm going to read *Outliers* over spring break, but I'm not going to stop there. I'm going to make it my goal to read often for pleasure, starting with non-fiction and slowly returning to fiction.

I want to read. I don't want to be one of those adults who never again reads after college. That would suck.