---
title: Filter Bubbles
layout: post
in_navigation: true
---

The algorithms learn from you. They know what you like. They know what you dislike. Most importantly, they know what you'll click in order to make their masters money.

As they learn from you -- as they show you less of what you dislike and more of what you like -- they put you into a *filter bubble*, a world in which everything you see is something you agree with.

There's [an excellent TED talk](https://www.ted.com/talks/eli_pariser_beware_online_filter_bubbles) on the subject.

I am reminded of this on the day after the U.S. elections. To my surprised -- and to the surprise of many people across the world -- Donald Trump won the election.

Very few people seem to have expected this.

I think part of the surprise for a lot of us is a self-inflicted lack of understanding of the issues that would cause someone to vote for Trump.

Personally, the most I ever did was venture into  [/r/the_donald](https://www.reddit.com/r/The_Donald/) and wonder *is this a joke or are these people serious?* I still don't know the answer to this question.

A lot of the pundits are now suggesting that the world failed to notice a few warning signs. Brexit was a surprising blow to globalism. Donald Trump rides the same wave of pessimism into the White House.

Did we actively choose to avoid these ideas? Or was it more passive? I think it was a combination of both.

Actively, I think we should all do more to try to understand the other side. We need to have active conversations with people who disagree with us. We need to figure out why they feel the way they feel. We need to follow people who's ideas we abhor. If our society is going to succeed, we need to worth with people we disagree with, not fight against them.

Passively, I have a huge concern that metric-driven newsfeed algorithms will continue to drive groups apart. I believe that corporations that run these -- like the aforementioned Facebook -- have an ethical responsibility to not manipulate what their users see.

Unfortunately -- in our metrics-driven world, in our profits-driven world -- I think this will only get worse. We'll see.
