---
title: Trump
layout: post
in_navigation: false
---

I've stopped listening to the news on the radio on my way to work. It's simply too depressing. Let's review.

Donald Trump, the racist [1], misogynistic [2], business failure [3] is about to become president of the United States because he somehow convinced millions of middle/lower class Americans that the man with a private jet would save them.

After promising to *drain the swamp* in his campaign, he's appointed an almost unbelievable number of insiders to his cabinet, ranging from an oil tycoon to a ex-governor who doesn't understand that the Department of Energy is really about nuclear armament.

Trump's children sit in on meetings with foreign dignitaries, on meetings with CEOs, and will be tasked with leading his companies while he's gone. Supposedly, they'll do this blindly -- but that's hardly believable at this point.

If this were a movie, these plot lines would be rejected for being too unbelievable. Sometimes truth is stranger than fiction.

#### References

[1] From a 2011 interview on The Laura Ingram show:

> "He doesn't have a birth certificate, or if he does, there's something on that certificate that is very bad for him. Now, somebody told me -- and I have no idea if this is bad for him or not, but perhaps it would be -- that where it says 'religion,' it might have 'Muslim.' And if you're a Muslim, you don't change your religion, by the way"

[2] From a 1994 interview with ABC’s Primetime Live:

>“I think that putting a wife to work is a very dangerous thing,” said Trump. “Unfortunately, after they're a star, the fun is over for me. It's like a creation process. It's almost like creating a building. It's pretty sad.”

[3] [Trump University](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/19/us/politics/trump-university.html) is a great example:

> But the allegations in the case were highly unpleasant for Mr. Trump: Students paid up to $35,000 in tuition for a programs that, according to the testimony of former Trump University employees, used high-pressure sales tactics and employed unqualified instructors.
