---
title: 2017
layout: post
in_navigation: true
---

It's practically the end of 2016, and because of this, I thought it would be worthwhile to write down my goals for 2017. (Because everyone knows there's no better way of achieving one's goals than talking about them!)

Without further ado, here are my goals for 2017:

- **Run a half-marathon every month.** Back when I started running in high school, I was a somewhat-chubby kid who could barely run a couple of miles. I constantly stopped to catch my breath. I ran in cargo shorts and cotton t-shirts. A couple of years ago (about eight years after I started running), I did my first half-marathon. In the end, this goal exists to ensure one thing: I don't lose my physical endurance. I don't care about going faster. I don't care about going further. (For now)
- **Eat 95% Vegan.** I've been vegetarian for seven years now. While I'm not ready to commit to full veganism, but I want to cut as much dairy out of my life as possible. Both for my health and for the sake of the animals. Practically, this means cooking 100% vegan at home (except maybe a homemade pizza every now and again).
- **Don't succumb to lifestyle creep.** Maintain current expenses or decrease them. I noticed that I have a tendency to expand my spending as I make more money. This is bad. Save more money instead!
- **Read more.** This sounds easy, but I hardly can be bothered to pick up a book anymore. I really like the idea of reading, but find that the cheap entertainment of the computer and phone to be too overwhelming. I need to find a way to overcome this.
- **Write more.** That's why this blog exists! I want to become more articulate at making arguments and feeling comfortable with putting my writing in public.

There's probably diminishing returns with adding more goals, so I'll stop there.
