---
title: On Psuedo-Monotonic Growth
layout: post
in_navigation: false
---

The stability of our modern American society is fundamentally based upon growth. Individuals invest in the stock market -- following Boglesque advice -- slowly raising the entire market as a whole. The 401k scheme almost explicitly forces this behavior onto the entire middle class of the United States.

And, as investors, we expect returns. We expect our nest-egg to grow and be worth more at the time of our retirement than at the time we began investing it.

When the unexpected happens, when the stock market crashes, people are forced to weather it. The expected monotonic growth stops. People are out of jobs. People cut back.

That leads me to ask the question: are the assumptions that we've made as a society correct? What happens if -- or when -- our society's [birth rate drops](https://qz.com/680270/americans-have-stopped-having-babies/) down to replacement levels or below? What happens when the U.S. is no longer a super-power?

We might look towards Japan as a model for what might result from such things happening (see ["The population conundrum"](https://www.ft.com/content/11dcfe2e-3314-11e2-aa83-00144feabdc0)):

> If one wanted to look at asset values in the industrialised economy most representative of population ageing, that would be Japan. It has sharply declining fertility rates, net immigration of virtually zero and the longest-lived population of any large economy. Its stock market peaked in the late 1980s – at about the time the size of its working age population did – and has atrophied ever since.

With the assumption that growth truly matters for our capitalistic society -- that doesn't sound good.

And it would seem that Americans don't want this. People, after all, expect their quality of life to be ever-increasing. It's The American Way™. We want ever-increasing square footage, more stuff, larger cars. We want the newest gadget.

The same pattern of growth repeats itself *ad infinitum*: growth is fundamental. We want our economy to grow because we want our employer to grow because we want our salary to grow because we want our house to grow.

So we seem to have two choices: (1) force continual growth, while finding ways to mitigate any decline in said growth or (2) change the game while we're playing it.

While the stubborn optimist in all of us might suggest that the first option is doable, I think it's important to remember the dark side of growth. With every yin, there is a yang.

In building the modern American society, we've continuously taken advantage of other peoples. Because of our insatiable thirst for technical gadgets and [Christmas ornaments](http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20141218-the-hidden-home-of-christmas), we've mortgaged our planet's environment and therefore [our children's future](http://ngm.nationalgeographic.com/2016/01/arctic-ice-shrinking-graphic-environment-text).

While that's a completely different topic entirely -- and I'm going to avoid talking about it for now -- our growth without restraint appears to already be screwing us over.

So we can't just assume that the gravy train will continue forever. Without some miraculous event that props up U.S. birth rates or some magical device that prevents climate change, endless growth is probably not sustainable.

So what do we do?
